README.md, before:

# ResearchFlow

<p align="center">
  <img src="icon.ico" alt="ResearchFlow Logo" width="80" height="80">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <strong>The Ultimate Academic Research Workflow Manager</strong>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.1.0-blue.svg" alt="Version">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-green.svg" alt="Python">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Windows-lightgrey.svg" alt="Platform">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-orange.svg" alt="License">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyQt6-6.0+-purple.svg" alt="PyQt6">
</p>

---

ResearchFlow is a portable, aesthetically pleasing desktop application designed for academic researchers to manage workflows, literature, and ideas. Built with a focus on modern design and fluid user experience, it features a Notion-like interface, rich interactions, and powerful project management tools.

---

## ✨ What's New in V2.1.0

### 🖼️ Enhanced Media & Layout
- **Image Snippets**: Auto-scaling images that fit perfectly within nodes. Double-click to view in full-size.
- **Dynamic Resizing**: Nodes can now be resized horizontally! Drag the handle at the bottom-right corner to adjust layout.
- **Smart Wrapping**: Long text snippets now automatically wrap and calculate height accurately, adapting to the node's width.

### 🎨 UI Refinements
- **Polished Sidebar**: Improved toggle button interactions and layout.
- **Design System**: Standardized horizontal scrolling and consistent icon usage.

### ✨ Smooth Animations
- **Animated Zoom**: Smooth, eased zoom transitions when scrolling for a premium feel.
- **Sliding Sidebar**: The project dock slides in/out with fluid animation.
- **Background Grid**: Subtle grid overlay on the canvas for easy node alignment.

<details>
<summary><strong>📜 Previous Versions</strong></summary>

### V2.0.0

#### 🎨 Modern UI/UX Overhaul
- **Apple/Notion-Inspired Design**: Completely redesigned interface with rounded corners, subtle shadows, and a clean, minimalist aesthetic.
- **Fluid Animations**: "Snappy" hover effects on nodes, smooth sidebar transitions, and refined interactions.
- **Advanced Connections**: Bezier curves with tangent-correct arrowhead alignment for beautiful, readable flowcharts.

#### 🎛️ Enhanced Global Management
- **Smart Sidebar**: Collapsible project manager that tucks away neatly, accessible via a subtle floating toggle.
- **Project Dashboard**: Integrated description editor, rich TODO list with strikethrough support, and global tag management.
- **Theme Customization**: Global settings for pipeline and reference edge colors.

</details>

---

## 🚀 Key Features

### 📊 Flow & Design
- **Pipeline Modules**: Drag-and-drop Input, Process, Decision, and Output modules.
- **Smart Linking**: Right-click and drag to create smooth Bezier connections.
- **Snap-to-Grid**: Hold `Shift` while moving nodes for precise 20px grid alignment.

### 📄 Literature & Snippets
- **Markdown Support**: Drag `.md` files to import papers as reference nodes.
- **PDF to Markdown**: We recommend using [MinerU](https://github.com/opendatalab/MinerU) to convert PDF papers to Markdown format for import.
- **LaTeX Rendering**: Native rendering of inline `$math$` and block `$$math$$` formulas with automatic numbering.
- **Multimedia Snippets**: Paste images (`Ctrl+V`) or drag them directly onto nodes.
- **Snippet Management**: Reorder snippets with `↑`/`↓` keys, delete with `Delete`.
- **Text Snippets**: Add text notes with support for Chinese characters (auto-fallback to Microsoft YaHei).

### 🏷️ Organization
- **Tag System**: Create, rename, and drag tags onto nodes. Click tags on nodes to remove them.
- **TODOs**: Integrated task management within your project view.

---

## 🛠️ Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10 or higher
- Windows 10/11 (primary platform)

### Quick Install

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/thefamer/ResearchFlow.git
cd ResearchFlow

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Or install dependencies manually:

```bash
pip install PyQt6 latex2mathml
```

### Running

```bash
python main.py
```

---

## ⌨️ Keyboard Shortcuts

| Action | Shortcut / Gesture |
|--------|-------------------|
| **Delete** | `Delete` key (Nodes, Edges, Snippets) |
| **Snap Move** | Hold `Shift` + Drag Node |
| **Reorder Snippets** | `↑` / `↓` keys |
| **Paste Image** | `Ctrl+V` (with node selected) |
| **Pan Canvas** | Middle Mouse Button Drag |
| **Zoom** | Mouse Wheel (Smooth animated) |
| **Save Project** | `Ctrl+S` |
| **New Project** | `Ctrl+N` |
| **Open Project** | `Ctrl+O` |

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
ResearchFlow/
├── main.py              # Application Entry & Main Window
├── models.py            # Data Models (Dataclasses)
├── graphics_items.py    # Custom QGraphicsItems (Nodes, Edges)
├── widgets.py           # Custom UI Widgets & Modern Components
├── utils.py             # Utilities, ModernTheme, ProjectManager
├── icon.ico             # Application Icon
├── DESIGN_SYSTEM.md     # Design Documentation
├── requirements.txt     # Python Dependencies
└── projects/            # Local Data Storage (auto-created)
    └── <project_name>/
        ├── project_data.json
        └── assets/
            ├── papers/
            └── images/
```

---

## 🔧 Technology Stack

| Component | Technology |
|-----------|------------|
| **Language** | Python 3.10+ |
| **UI Framework** | PyQt6 |
| **Math Rendering** | latex2mathml |
| **Data Storage** | JSON (portable, no database) |
| **Graphics** | QGraphicsView Framework |

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Here's how you can help:

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create** a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. **Commit** your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. **Push** to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. **Open** a Pull Request

### Development Notes

- Follow PEP 8 style guidelines
- Add type hints to new functions
- Update documentation for new features
- Test on Windows before submitting

---

## 📋 Roadmap

- [ ] macOS / Linux support
- [ ] Export to PNG / PDF
- [ ] Cloud sync integration
- [ ] Plugin system
- [ ] Dark theme

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Inspired by [Notion](https://notion.so) and [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md)
- Built with [PyQt6](https://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/)
- Icons and design inspired by Apple Human Interface Guidelines

---

<p align="center">
  Made with ❤️ for researchers everywhere
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#researchflow">Back to Top ↑</a>
</p>

Commit message:

Add PyInstaller build instructions and improve app root detection
Updated README.md with instructions for building a portable .exe using PyInstaller. Modified utils.py to detect the application root directory correctly when running as a PyInstaller bundle, ensuring the projects folder is created next to the executable.

README.md, after:

# ResearchFlow

<p align="center">
  <img src="icon.ico" alt="ResearchFlow Logo" width="80" height="80">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <strong>The Ultimate Academic Research Workflow Manager</strong>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.1.0-blue.svg" alt="Version">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-green.svg" alt="Python">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Windows-lightgrey.svg" alt="Platform">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-orange.svg" alt="License">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyQt6-6.0+-purple.svg" alt="PyQt6">
</p>

---

ResearchFlow is a portable, aesthetically pleasing desktop application designed for academic researchers to manage workflows, literature, and ideas. Built with a focus on modern design and fluid user experience, it features a Notion-like interface, rich interactions, and powerful project management tools.

---

## ✨ What's New in V2.1.0

### 🖼️ Enhanced Media & Layout
- **Image Snippets**: Auto-scaling images that fit perfectly within nodes. Double-click to view in full-size.
- **Dynamic Resizing**: Nodes can now be resized horizontally! Drag the handle at the bottom-right corner to adjust layout.
- **Smart Wrapping**: Long text snippets now automatically wrap and calculate height accurately, adapting to the node's width.

### 🎨 UI Refinements
- **Polished Sidebar**: Improved toggle button interactions and layout.
- **Design System**: Standardized horizontal scrolling and consistent icon usage.

### ✨ Smooth Animations
- **Animated Zoom**: Smooth, eased zoom transitions when scrolling for a premium feel.
- **Sliding Sidebar**: The project dock slides in/out with fluid animation.
- **Background Grid**: Subtle grid overlay on the canvas for easy node alignment.

<details>
<summary><strong>📜 Previous Versions</strong></summary>

### V2.0.0

#### 🎨 Modern UI/UX Overhaul
- **Apple/Notion-Inspired Design**: Completely redesigned interface with rounded corners, subtle shadows, and a clean, minimalist aesthetic.
- **Fluid Animations**: "Snappy" hover effects on nodes, smooth sidebar transitions, and refined interactions.
- **Advanced Connections**: Bezier curves with tangent-correct arrowhead alignment for beautiful, readable flowcharts.

#### 🎛️ Enhanced Global Management
- **Smart Sidebar**: Collapsible project manager that tucks away neatly, accessible via a subtle floating toggle.
- **Project Dashboard**: Integrated description editor, rich TODO list with strikethrough support, and global tag management.
- **Theme Customization**: Global settings for pipeline and reference edge colors.

</details>

---

## 🚀 Key Features

### 📊 Flow & Design
- **Pipeline Modules**: Drag-and-drop Input, Process, Decision, and Output modules.
- **Smart Linking**: Right-click and drag to create smooth Bezier connections.
- **Snap-to-Grid**: Hold `Shift` while moving nodes for precise 20px grid alignment.

### 📄 Literature & Snippets
- **Markdown Support**: Drag `.md` files to import papers as reference nodes.
- **PDF to Markdown**: We recommend using [MinerU](https://github.com/opendatalab/MinerU) to convert PDF papers to Markdown format for import.
- **LaTeX Rendering**: Native rendering of inline `$math$` and block `$$math$$` formulas with automatic numbering.
- **Multimedia Snippets**: Paste images (`Ctrl+V`) or drag them directly onto nodes.
- **Snippet Management**: Reorder snippets with `↑`/`↓` keys, delete with `Delete`.
- **Text Snippets**: Add text notes with support for Chinese characters (auto-fallback to Microsoft YaHei).

### 🏷️ Organization
- **Tag System**: Create, rename, and drag tags onto nodes. Click tags on nodes to remove them.
- **TODOs**: Integrated task management within your project view.

---

## 🛠️ Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.10 or higher
- Windows 10/11 (primary platform)

### Quick Install

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/thefamer/ResearchFlow.git
cd ResearchFlow

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Or install dependencies manually:

```bash
pip install PyQt6 latex2mathml
```

### Running

```bash
python main.py
```

### 📦 Building Portable .exe (Optional)

Create a standalone portable executable that runs without Python installed:

```bash
pip install pyinstaller
pyinstaller --noconsole --onefile --icon=icon.ico --name="ResearchFlow" main.py
```

The generated `ResearchFlow.exe` will be in the `dist/` folder. 

> **✅ True Portable**: The `projects/` data folder is automatically created next to the `.exe` file, not in any temp or system folder. Copy the `.exe` and your `projects/` folder anywhere!

---

## ⌨️ Keyboard Shortcuts

| Action | Shortcut / Gesture |
|--------|-------------------|
| **Delete** | `Delete` key (Nodes, Edges, Snippets) |
| **Snap Move** | Hold `Shift` + Drag Node |
| **Reorder Snippets** | `↑` / `↓` keys |
| **Paste Image** | `Ctrl+V` (with node selected) |
| **Pan Canvas** | Middle Mouse Button Drag |
| **Zoom** | Mouse Wheel (Smooth animated) |
| **Save Project** | `Ctrl+S` |
| **New Project** | `Ctrl+N` |
| **Open Project** | `Ctrl+O` |

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
ResearchFlow/
├── main.py              # Application Entry & Main Window
├── models.py            # Data Models (Dataclasses)
├── graphics_items.py    # Custom QGraphicsItems (Nodes, Edges)
├── widgets.py           # Custom UI Widgets & Modern Components
├── utils.py             # Utilities, ModernTheme, ProjectManager
├── icon.ico             # Application Icon
├── DESIGN_SYSTEM.md     # Design Documentation
├── requirements.txt     # Python Dependencies
└── projects/            # Local Data Storage (auto-created)
    └── <project_name>/
        ├── project_data.json
        └── assets/
            ├── papers/
            └── images/
```

---

## 🔧 Technology Stack

| Component | Technology |
|-----------|------------|
| **Language** | Python 3.10+ |
| **UI Framework** | PyQt6 |
| **Math Rendering** | latex2mathml |
| **Data Storage** | JSON (portable, no database) |
| **Graphics** | QGraphicsView Framework |

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Here's how you can help:

1. **Fork** the repository
2. **Create** a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. **Commit** your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. **Push** to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. **Open** a Pull Request

### Development Notes

- Follow PEP 8 style guidelines
- Add type hints to new functions
- Update documentation for new features
- Test on Windows before submitting

---

## 📋 Roadmap

- [ ] macOS / Linux support
- [ ] Export to PNG / PDF
- [ ] Cloud sync integration
- [ ] Plugin system
- [ ] Dark theme

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Inspired by [Notion](https://notion.so) and [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md)
- Built with [PyQt6](https://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/)
- Icons and design inspired by Apple Human Interface Guidelines

---

<p align="center">
  Made with ❤️ for researchers everywhere
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#researchflow">Back to Top ↑</a>
</p>
